.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii halvm-osd.8
.\"
.TH HALVM-OSD 1 "MAY 2007" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
halvm-osd \- HalVM On Screen Display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B halvm-osd [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B halvm-osd
is a small mount notification utility. It simply put a small OSD notice of the screen whenever a volume is mounted or unmounted.
.B halvm-osd
is written in 
.B Python
and uses 
.B HAL,
.B DBus
and
.B PyOSD.
.B halvm-osd
has been developed for use with
.BR halvm (8)
but it will work with any volume managers or mounting tool, as it gets informations directly from
.B HAL.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP --test
Test the OSD-settings and then quit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B halvm-osd
keeps it's configuration in
.I ~/.config/halvm-osd.rc
which is created the first time a user executes
.B halvm-osd.
The configuration file is divided into sections each containing 
.I key=value
pairs.
.SS [text]
This section contains the basic text properties for the OSD.
.TP
.BI color
Set the OSD text color. The color is set an RGB value. The default is "#00FF00" (bright green).
.TP
.BI font
Set the OSD text font. The default is "-*-helvetica-*-r-*-*-24-*-*-*-*-*-*-*".
.SS [shadow]
The OSD text can be given a shadow. This section contains the shadow properties.
.TP
.BI color
Set the text shadow's color. The color is set an RGB value. The default is "#000000" (black).
.TP
.BI offset
Set the text shadow's offset. The default is "0" (no shadow).
.SS [placement]
This section contains the OSD placement properties. The placement is decided by setting a (horizontal and vertical) placement policy and a (horizontal and vertical) offset.
.TP
.BI voffset
Set the text's vertical offset in pixel. The default is "0".
.TP
.BI halign
Set the text's vertical placement policy. Legal values are "left", "center" and "right". The default is "center".
.TP
.BI hoffset
Set the text's horizontal offset in pixel. The default is "0". 
.TP 
.BI valign
Set the text's horizontal placement. Legal values are "top", "center" and "bottom". The default is "bottom".
.SS [outline]
The OSD text can be given an outline. This section contains the outline properties.
.TP
.BI color
Set the text outline's color. The color is set an RGB value. The default is "#000000" (black).
.TP
.BI width
Set the text outline width in pixels. 0 means no outline. The default is "1".
.SH FILES
.I ~/.config/halvm-osd.rc
.RS halvm-osd's configuration file
.SH BUGS
None that I know of so far.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR halvm (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Parm <parmus@parmus.dk>
